# Adding POST to web server
So now that we have a good understanding of do_GET, let's take this web server to the next level with some post functionality. **GETs** are good for viewing information already on the server, but **POSTs** are what allow the user to customize their web experience. **GET requests** happen simply by visiting the URL in a browser, but **POST requests** from a browser require data to be submitted, like with a form.  

## Code breakdown
We're going to add a post method such that our server doesn't just say hello or hola, but whatever the user prompts as a salutation. On the same level as our do_GET method, we will create another method called do_POST, which overrides the method in the **BaseHTTPRequestHandler** superclass, just like do_GET. We'll make another try-except block, similar to our do_GET method.
```
...

    def do_GET():
        ...

    def do_POST(self):
        try:

        except:

def main():
    ...

...
```
When we receive a post request, we'll send off the response code that indicates a successful post with `self.send_response(301)`.
```
...

    def do_POST(self):
        try:
            self.send_response(301)
            self.end_headers()

        except:

...
```

Next, we need to decipher the message that was sent from the server. In order to do this, we're going to use some message from the **CGI**, or **Common Gateway Interface**, library in Python. For that, we'll import the CGI library at the top of our file, like so:
```
from BaseHTTPServer import BaseHTTPRequestHandler, HTTPServer
import cgi

...
```
Let's take a look at the following chunk of code we're going to add:
```
...

    def do_POST(self):
        try:
            self.send_response(301)
            self.end_headers()

            ctype, pdict = cgi.parse_header(self.headers.getheader('content-type'))
            if ctype == 'multipart/form-data':
                fields=cgi.parse_multipart(self.rfile, pdict)
                messagecontent = fields.get('message')

...
```
This **cgi.parse_header** function parses an HTML form header, such as content type, into a main value and dictionary of parameters. After that, we check and see if this is form data being received.

We then make a variable called `fields`, which will use the **cgi.parse_multipart** to collect all of the fields in a form.

Then, we will create a variable called `messagecontent` to get out the value of a specific field or set of fields and store them in an array. We will call this field `message` here and when we create our HTML form.

So now that we've received the POST request, we can decide what to tell the client with the new information we've received. We will create an empty string named `output` again and then add some opening HTML tags to it.

We'll have our server respond with "okay, how about this", and then return the first value of the array that was created when we submitted the form, like so:

```
...

    def do_POST(self):
        try:
            self.send_response(301)
            self.end_headers()

            ctype, pdict = cgi.parse_header(self.headers.getheader('content-type'))
            if ctype == 'multipart/form-data':
                fields=cgi.parse_multipart(self.rfile, pdict)
                messagecontent = fields.get('message')

            output = ""
            output += """
                <html>
                    <body>
                        <h2>Okay, how about this: </h2>
                        <h1> %s </h1>
            """ % messagecontent[0]

...
```

You might be thinking, hey, you haven't even created an HTML form, but keep talking about it in the POST handler. And you'd be right. So let's go ahead and do this now.

```
def do_POST(self):
    try:
        self.send_response(301)
        self.end_headers()

        ctype, pdict = cgi.parse_header(self.headers.getheader('content-type'))
        if ctype == 'multipart/form-data':
            fields=cgi.parse_multipart(self.rfile, pdict)
            messagecontent = fields.get('message')

        output = ""
★       output += "<html><body>"
        output += "<h2>Okay, how about this: </h2>"
        output += "<h1> %s </h1>" % messagecontent[0]

★       output += "<form method='POST' enctype='multipart/form-data' action='/hello'><h2>What would you like me to say?</h2><input name='message' type='text'><input type='submit' value='Submit'></form>"
★       output += "</body></html>"
```
In this line of HTML code, I'm adding a post request along with the header tag, to prompt the user to input some data. Here, I wrote the name of my input field as *message*, to coincide with the message field I'm extracting data from in the post request.

Go ahead and copy the line of code that contains the form and paste it into our hello and hola get requests, so this form is present on their pages as well.

Let's also separate out our opening and closing `html` and `body` tags on their own line of code.

Don't forget to close the `body` and `html` tags in the post handler, send the output out to the server and print out the output for debugging.

In the exception block, we'll just leave it as `pass` for now.

Let's see these new changes in action on the web browser.
