# Developing with Frameworks

So up to this point we've created our code almost purely from scratch, using a few internal libraries like HTTP Base Server and external libraries like SQL Alchemy.

Creating a website from scratch really shows that you have a good grasp of underlying programming concepts and are able to utilize the power of Python. But as we make our website more and more complex, the code becomes repetitive and difficult to maintain.

Frameworks are collections of code that simplify the web development process. They take care of repetitive tasks and allow us to focus on the more unique features of our project.

At the moment, some of the most popular frameworks out there are RubyonRails.net and Django. But if we take a look at [this Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_web_frameworks), we see that there are hundreds of frameworks developers have created to code web applications more efficiently.

Frameworks may rise and fall in popularity but the same underlying concepts for developing web pages apply for all of these technologies.

Think of a framework as a box of prepared cake mix. We could make a cake using all of these items from scratch and would probably have a better understanding of how to make cakes.

But if we have several cakes to make in a short period of time, finding a cake mix simplifies the preparation process and helps us focus on other things, like frosting.

In lesson two, we built a website with the raw ingredients of web development. Now it's time to see how we can use frameworks to improve our development process.
