# Running my first Flask application

Let's go ahead and create our first application in Flask. Create a file named *project.py* in the same directory as the *database_setup.py* file. A minimal Flask application looks something like this:

```
from flask import Flask


app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route('/')
@app.route('/hello')
def HelloWorld():
    return "Hello World"

if __name__ == '__main__':
    app.debug = True
    app.run(host = '0.0.0.0', port = 5000)

```
Let's take a look at this code together and see what's going on. First, I imported this **Flask** class from the **flask** library:
```
from flask import Flask
```
Next, I create an instance of this class with the name of the running application as the argument:
```
app = Flask(__name__)
```
Anytime we run an application in Python, a special variable called `__name__` gets defined for the application and all of the imports it uses. The application run by the Python interpreter gets a name variable set to `__main__` whereas all the other imported Python files get a `__name__` variable set to the actual name of the Python file.

Next, I have this thing that looks like a function, but starts with an `@` symbol.
```
@app.route('/')
@app.route('/hello')
```
This is called a **decorator** in Python. This **decorator** essentially wraps our function inside the app.route function that Flask has already created. So if either of these routes get sent from the browser, the function that we define below them gets executed. In this case:
```
def HelloWorld():
    return "Hello World"
```
Inside the HelloWorld function, we return the message we want to display to the user's browser.

If this is difficult to follow, it's okay. If you're interested, you can learn more about decorator functions **[here](http://simeonfranklin.com/blog/2012/jul/1/python-decorators-in-12-steps/)**. Just know that this ` @app.route` piece of code will call the function that follows it whenever the web server receives a request with a URL that matches its argument. So, in this case, if we visit the root of our site at `localhost:5000/` or `localhost:5000/hello`, this **HelloWorld** function will be invoked.

Going into the last lines of our code, we use the run function to run the local server with our application:
```
if __name__ == '__main__':
    app.debug = True
★   app.run(host = '0.0.0.0', port = 5000)
```
The if statement here makes sure the server only runs if the script is executed directly from the Python interpreter, and not used as an imported module. So basically, this line of code says: *if you're executing me with the Python interpreter, then do this. But if you're importing me into another Python file don't do this, but you still have access to the rest of the code.*

By default, the server is only accessible from the host machine and not from any other computer. This is the default because in debugging mode, a user of the application can execute arbitrary Python code on your computer. Since we're using a vagrant environment for this course, we must make our server publicly by changing the call of the run method to look like this:

```
    app.run(host = '0.0.0.0', port = 5000)
```
 This tells the web server on our vagrant machine to listen on all public IP addresses.

 Restarting our server each time we make a modification to our code can get pretty annoying, but Flask can take care of this for us with `app.debug = True`. If you enable debug support the server will reload itself each time it notices a code change. It'll also provide you a helpful debugger in the browser if things go wrong.

Let's save this code as `project.py` in the same directory as our `restaurantmenu.db` file and execute it with the Python interpreter.

Visiting `localhost:5000` or `localhost:5000/hello`, we see the output of our code. To stop the server, hit Ctrl+C. So we see that with much fewer lines of code, we executed a similar version of our Hello World from lesson two. Notice that with Flask we don't have to explicitly write out response codes anymore. You'll soon see that this is just one of the several features frameworks take care of automatically for the developer.
