# Routing

Most modern web applications have elegant URLs. This helps people remember links which then can be easily bookmarked or shared with others. As we saw in previous videos, the route decorator is used to bind a function to a URL, but there is more to it than just static paths. We can make certain paths of the URL dynamic and attach multiple rules to a function.

## URLs with Variables
To add variables to a URL, we can specify a rule with:
```
"path/<type: variable_name>/path"
```
where type can be an integer, string, or another path. We will make a new route for our menu app as so:
```
@app.route('/restaurants/<int:restaurant_id>/')
```
and use the restaurant id to specify which menu we want to see. Note that it's handy to leave in this trailing slash, and Flask will render the page, even when it's not there in the URL.

Let's now save our changes and visit `localhost:5000/restaurants/1/` and see our first restaurant menu there. If we change the integer after restaurants, we can see other restaurants in our database as well.


### Instructor notes

Since the HelloWorld(restaurant_id) didn't make much sense, I changed it to restaurantMenu(restaurant_id) in the solution code.

Before you run the code, make sure to wipe your database and re-initialize it with lotsofmenus.py! The changes made in in the previous videos will prevent the code from working otherwise.

• **[Flask Documentation on Routing](http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/0.10/quickstart/#routing)**

----

# Quiz

```
# Task 1: Create route for newMenuItem function here

def newMenuItem(restaurant_id):
    return "page to create a new menu item. Task 1 complete!"


# Task 2: Create route for editMenuItem function here

def editMenuItem(restaurant_id, menu_id):
    return "page to edit a menu item. Task 2 complete!"


# Task 3: Create a route for deleteMenuItem function here

def deleteMenuItem(restaurant_id, menu_id):
    return "page to delete a menu item. Task 3 complete!"
```

Download the starter template for this code **[here](https://github.com/udacity/Full-Stack-Foundations/blob/master/Lesson-3/05_Routing-Create-Quiz-Template-Code/project.py)**.

Note that there are functions for newMenuItem, editMenuItem, and deleteMenuItem, all with the parameters that they take in. Write up the appropriate route decorations to properly execute these functions. When you can open the URLs to create, edit, and delete menu items, you have successfully completed this challenge.

## Solution

Let's construct the route for our new menu item.
```
★ @app.route('/restaurant/<int:restaurant_id>/new/')
  def newMenuItem(restaurant_id):
      return "page to create a new menu item. Task 1 complete!"
```
Now when we visit `/restaurant` and pass in an integer and then `/new`, this integer will get passed in as the `restaurant_id` for the `newMenuItem` function and successfully return that task one is complete.

The `editMenuItem` takes in two parameters, so we need to make sure that our route also has two parameters: the `restaurant_id` and the `menu_id`, and then slash edit, like so:

```
★ @app.route('/restaurant/<int:restaurant_id>/<int:menu_id>/edit/')
  def editMenuItem(restaurant_id, menu_id):
      return "page to edit a menu item. Task 2 complete!"
```
Similarly to the edit route, the delete route looks just about the same, except that it has `/delete`:
```
★ @app.route('/restaurant/<int:restaurant_id>/<int:menu_id>/delete/')
  def deleteMenuItem(restaurant_id, menu_id):
      return "page to delete a menu item. Task 3 complete!"
```
