# Templates

Generating HTML from within Python isn't all that fun. I'm sure you're getting pretty tired of having to create these strings we've called `output` over and over and over. This can get pretty cumbersome as our application gets more and more complex. Because of that, Flask configures a template engine for you to store your HTML code.

## Rendering Templates
To render a template, you can use this cleverly named method called `render_template`. All you have to do is provide the name of the template and the variables you want to pass to the template engine as keywork arguments, like so:
```
render_template(templateName.html, variable=keyword)
```
Here, we will render a template for our Menu Items page. Flask will look for our templates in a folder named templates, so let's make a directory called templates in the same folder as our Flask application, and from within it we'll create an HTML document and call it **menu.html**.

But what about when we need to get information from our database or Python code into our HTML? This retrieval of data is called **HTML escaping**.

Templates in Flask are already pre-configured to handle escape code. That is, the code that we're retrieving from our application and database, and putting it into our HTML.

With HTML escaping we have access to python variables and functions, and can even get the results added directly into our HTML code.

> #### NOTE
> **[HTML Character Escaping](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML#Character_and_entity_references)** is a way of writing special characters inside of HTML code, this is a different concept from the HTML escaping with python code shown in this lesson.

----

# Quiz

I've created a sample template here, and called it menu.html:

```
<html>

    <body>

        <h1>{{restaurant.name}}</h1>


        {% for i in items %}

        <div>

            <p>{{i.name}}</p>

            <p>{{i.description}}</p>

            <p> {{i.price}} </p>

        </div>


        {% endfor %}
    </body>

</html>
```
A copy of it is available **[here](https://github.com/udacity/Full-Stack-Foundations/blob/master/Lesson-3/07_Menu-Template-Quiz/menu.html)**.

Take a look at it and see if you can figure out how Flask accommodates for a escape code? You should see a few symbols here that don't look like HTML. Try and see if you can figure out what each one of them does.

## Solution

Alright, so we see that the code with the single bracket and a percent sign on either side is the logical code that we want to execute in our HTML, like a for loop:
```
{% logical code %}
```
The double brackets indicate the code that we want its results printed in the HTML document itself:
```
{{ printed code }}
```
Since from within HTML codes we cannot use indentations to mark the beginning and ending of statements and loops, we must use keywords, like `{% endfor %}` and `{% endif %}`, to indicate the end of a loop, or statement.

Going back to our *menu.html*, we can see how we're obtaining the results of a query and executing the output here in our HTML page:
```
    {% for i in items %}

    <div>

        <p>{{i.name}}</p>

        <p>{{i.description}}</p>

        <p> {{i.price}} </p>

    </div>
```
We will also need to substitute the code we had in our `restaurantMenu()` method, so that instead of returning a string, it'll return a rendered template with the new *menu.html* file, like so:
```
def restaurantMenu(restaurant_id):
    restaurant = session.query(Restaurant).filter_by(id = restaurant_id).one()
    items = session.query(MenuItem).filter_by(restaurant_id = restaurant.id)
★   return render_template('menu.html', restaurant=restaurant, items=items)
```
Since we're querying on our restaurant and menu items table, we'll path our queries into the template so that our escape code has access to these variables. We'll also need to import the `render_template` function from the flask library.
```
from flask import Flask, render_template
```
By saving and refreshing the page, we see the same code with a few stylistic modifications we added inside of our template.
