# URL Building
URL Building is a helpful feature in Flask to create URLs based on the functions they execute. This is really helpful when you want to create links to other pages inside your application.

## url_for()
To build a URL to a specific function, we can use the `url_for()` method. This is one of the many helper functions that Flask makes available to us. The documentation for url_for can be found on the Flask documentation page **[here](http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/1.0/quickstart/#url-building)**.

----

# Quiz
I want you to open up the menu.html template and add some new hyperlinks to edit and delete each menu item. Remember that this `url_for` helper method returns a complete URL stream, so place it where it belongs inside of an anchor tag.

If your code works, you should have edit and delete links now on every menu item. Read through the documentation for reference.

## Solution
`url_for` accepts the name of the function as the first argument, and a number of keyword arguments each corresponding to the variable part of the URL rule.
```
url_for(function, keyword_argument, keyword_argument, keyword_argument, ...)
```
So if my URL needs a variable for a restaurant ID and a menu item ID, my url_for statement needs to look something like this:
```
url_for('editMenuItem', restaurant_id=restaurant.id, menu_id=i.id)
```
taking in three arguments for the function it will call and the variables to pass into that function.

So back in our template, we can add this code inside our anchor tags right after the `href=`, like so:
```
<a href="{{ url_for('editMenuItem', restaurant_id = restaurant.id, menu_id = i.id) }}">Edit</a>
```
Since this is a method in Python and we want the output printed on to our HTML document, we'll enclose it with a double brackets.

When we save our code now, we see that there are edit and delete links for each menu item below.

So you may be wondering why you would ever want to build URLs instead of hardcoding them into your templates. Well, now if you ever need to change a URL path, with URL building, you can change your URLs all in one place without having to remember to change URLs all over the place from within your application.

----

## Instructor notes

You can find the entire solution code **[here](https://github.com/udacity/Full-Stack-Foundations/blob/master/Lesson-3/10_url_for-Solution/menu.html)**.
