# Message Flashing

Good applications and user interfaces incorporate feedback throughout the user experience. If a user doesn't get enough feedback they'll probably end up hating the application. We should add a feature that explicitly notifies the user that the system has responded to their input.

Flask provides a really simple way to give feedback to a user. **Message Flashing** is a feature that will prompt a message to a user immediately after a certain action has taken place, and then disappear the next time the page is requested.

We can use our templates to reveal a flash message, whenever and however we want, from within the application.

To get started, let's import flash from our Flask module:
```
from flask import Flask, render_template, request, redirect, url_for, flash
```
Flashing works in Flask by using a concept called **sessions**.

> #### Sessions
> Sessions are a way a server can store information across multiple web pages to create a more personalized user experience.

In the bottom of our project.py file, let's first add a secret key, which flask will use to create sessions for our users. Normally, this should be a very secure password if our application was live on the Internet, but for development purposes, let's just set our key to "super_secret_key":
```
if __name__ == '__main__':
★   app.secret_key = 'super_secret_key'
    app.debug = True
    app.run(host='0.0.0.0', port=5000)
```
To flash the message within our application, we simply use the flash function like this:
```
flash("insert message here")
```
To get a hold of all of the flash messages, we can use `get_flashed_messages()`, which will also work from within our templates.

So from within our `newMenuItem` method, we'll create a flash message right after we call `session.commit`. We will add the message "New menu item created!", like so:
```
def newMenuItem(restaurant_id):
    if request.method == 'POST':
        newItem = MenuItem(name = request.form['name'], restaurant_id = restaurant_id)
        session.add(newItem)
★       flash("New menu item created!")
        session.commit()
        return redirect(url_for('restaurantMenu', restaurant_id = restaurant_id))
    else:
        return render_template('newmenuitem.html', restaurant_id = restaurant_id)

```
Now, in our *menu.html* template, we will add the following code:
```
{% with messages = get_flashed_messages() %}
    {% if messages %}
        <ul>
            {% for message in messages %}
                <li><b>{{ message }}</b></li>
            {% endfor %}
        </ul>
    {% endif %}
{% endwith %}
```
If you're not familiar with this `with` construct in Python, don't worry. It's just a block that does some automatic clean-up when the block is exited, that we don't really have to concern ourselves with. If you're curious about the `with` method in Python, you can learn more about it **[here](http://effbot.org/zone/python-with-statement.htm)**.

The `get_flashed_messages` is returning an array of messages that's going to get stored in this variable called messages:
```
{% with messages = get_flashed_messages() %}
```
We then loop through the array of messages, if it's not empty, and print it out to our HTML document inside an Unordered List.

Now when we save my code and try making a new item, we're flashed with a new confirmation message on our main menu screen.

----

# Quiz 1
Let's add flash messages for when an item is edited or deleted!

## Solution
In our `editMenuItem` function, right after we call `session.commit` we'll go ahead and add a `flash` message to let our user know that an item has successfully been edited.

Likewise, in our `deleteMenuItem` function, we'll add another `flash` message to let the user know an item has been deleted.

The complete solution for this challenge is available **[here](https://github.com/udacity/Full-Stack-Foundations/blob/master/Lesson-3/17_Flash-Messaging-Solution/project.py)**.

----

# Quiz 2
So we have a working application now, but we should probably add some style to it, if we want it to be appealing to users.

Flask can automatically look for CSS, JavaScript, and media files, if we put them in a folder named 'static'. So let's create a folder named static in the same directory as our *project.py* file.

Let's also create a CSS file, name it *styles.css*, and store it inside of this directory. By adding this following link to our template files:
```
<link rel='stylesheet' type='text/css' href='{{ url_for("static", filename="styles.css") }}'>
```
we will tell Flask to use this style.css file when it renders this template.

Take some time to add some style into your menu app. A sample CSS file can be found **[here](https://github.com/udacity/Full-Stack-Foundations/tree/master/Lesson-3/18_Styling)**.
