# Responding with JSON

Responding with web pages is great, but sometimes all that needs to be communicated is information. For example, let's say that there's a web application out there called Yum that wants to collect our restaurant menus and advertise them to mobile clients based on their location.

This app wants to see the restaurants and menus available in our database but doesn't really need to parse through HTML or waste bandwidth receiving CSS files. It just wants the data.

For this reason, developers have created **APIs, or Application Programming Interfaces**, that allow external applications to use public information our apps want to share without all the bells and whistles.

When an API is communicated over the Internet, following the rules of HTTP, we call this a **restful API**. One of the most popular ways of sending data with a restful architecture is with a format called JSON, which stands for JavaScript object notation.

JSON uses attribute value pairings which are delimited by a colon, and brackets are used to encapsulate individual objects. Like so:

```
{
    "MenuItems": [
        {
            "course": "Entree",
            "description": "Made with all natural ingredients and fresh mozzarella",
            "id": 1,
            "name": "Cheese Pizza",
            "price": "$7.95"
        },
        {
            "course": "Appetizer",
            "description": "With garlic and parmesan",
            "id": 2,
            "name": "Sweet Potato Fries",
            "price": "$2.99"
        },
        ...
    ]
}
```

Let's start coding to add this JSON feature to our application. Before we write the JSON function in our Flask menu app, let's first open up the *database_setup.py* and add a decorator method.
```
@property
def serialize(self):
    # Returns object data in easily serializable format
    return {
        'name'          : self.name,
        'description'   : self.description,
        'id'            : self.id,
        'price'         : self.price,
        'course'        : self.course
    }
```
This serializable function will help define what data we want to send across, and put it in a format that Flask can easily use.

Flask has a built-in package called jsonify, that will allow us to easily configure an API endpoint for our application. Let's go ahead and import this package now in our *project.py* file.
```
from flask import Flask, render_template, request, redirect, url_for, flash, jsonify
```
For this lesson we are only going to focus on using a `GET` request to get a collection of restaurant menu items. But know that other types of requests can be implemented as well.

We will now create a route similar to our restaurant menu page with `/JSON` at the end:
```
# Making an API Endpoint (GET Request)
@app.route('/restaurants/<int:restaurant_id>/menu/JSON')
```
We then create a function and name it `restaurantMenuJSON` and then perform the same queries as in our `restaurantMenu` class, but instead of returning a template, we'll return a jsonify class and use a loop to serialize all of our database entries, like so:
```
# Making an API Endpoint (GET Request)
@app.route('/restaurants/<int:restaurant_id>/menu/JSON')
def restaurantMenuJSON(restaurant_id):
    restaurant = session.query(Restaurant).filter_by(id=restaurant_id).one()
    items = session.query(MenuItem).filter_by(restaurant_id=restaurant_id).all()
    return jsonify(MenuItems=[i.serialize for i in items])
```
Now, if we save and go to `localhost:5000/restaurants/1/menu/json`, we're returned with the pure data form of our menu in a format that can easily be read by humans and easily be parsed by other computers.

----

# Quiz

Let's add another JSON method that will get a specific menu item, like this:
```
{
    "MenuItem": {
        "course": "Entree",
        "description": "Juicy grilled chicken patty with tomato mayo and lettuce",
        "id": 3,
        "name": "Chicken Burger",
        "price": "$5.50"
    }
}
```
 when we visit a route that looks like this:
```
'restaurants/<int:restaurant_id>/menu/<int:menu_id>/JSON/'
```
Template code and the example from the previous JSON request are available **[here](https://github.com/udacity/Full-Stack-Foundations/tree/master/Lesson-3/19_Responding-with-JSON)**.

## Solution
So in order to add our second JSON endpoint, we should add a route, just like specified in the question:
```
@app.route('/restaurants/<int:restaurant_id>/menu/<int:menu_id>/JSON/')
```
Then we create a new function, I decided to call it `menuItemJSON`, that passes in `restaurant_id` and `menu_id`, since both of them are specified in the URL:
```
def menuItemJSON(restaurant_id, menu_id):
```
We then perform a query to get the one menu ID that we want to get the information about:
```
item = session.query(MenuItem).filter_by(id = menu_id).one()
```
We will then JSONify that menu item but serializing it first:
```
return jsonify(MenuItem=item.serialize)
```
You can see a full version of this code **[here](https://github.com/udacity/Full-Stack-Foundations/tree/master/Lesson-3/20_JSON-Solution)**.
