# Iterative Development
Now that we've practiced using so many new tools and concepts, it's time to embark on a project. We'll create a menu app with Flask that lists out all the restaurants in your database and allows you to view the menu for each of those restaurants.

Users should also be able to create, read, update and delete restaurants and their menu items.

You'll be the technical lead on this project and I will not be telling you line by line how to write your code. Note that the code presented in these next challenges will help you make a basic final project. But I strongly encourage you to go above and beyond by making a unique creation that you can call your own and share with others.

But before we get started, how do we go about building our web application? For many people, the most natural way of going about a project is to just dive into it head first, writing as much code as possible before falling asleep.

While this method feels fast, many times we end up spending more time fixing bugs and examining code than actually developing our application.

Another option is to code in pieces, working on one page here, another feature there, and putting everything together at the end. While this approach is a little more organized, we may stumble across several bugs when it's time to integrate all of our code together. Also, we won't have a working prototype until we're finished with the entire project.

But what if we took another approach, starting out really simple and layering on complexity as we go? Not adding a new feature until we finish the one before. With each feature, we stop, test, debug, and share to make sure we always have a working application even if it's very basic in the initial stages.

This way, anyone involved in the creation of our product, such as clients, managers, and team members, always know what the project status is, and what enhancements are soon to follow.

This process is called **iterative development**.

**Iterative development** allows developers to code in an agile way. What agile means is that since there is always a working prototype, if a client or teammate asks for changes, as a developer, you can react to that feedback quickly without tripping up the entire process.

In this last lesson, you will plan, organize, and execute development iteratively, to create a final polished restaurant menu application.

----

# Tackling a Complex Project

The first step to having an awesome we application is having an awesome game plan. Let's define what our prototype should do after completing each iteration. Let's do some brain storming to make a checklist of deliverables that we want to achieve with each iteration of development, by breaking down the project into smaller, easier to manage mini-projects.

> ## Checklist
> - [x] Mockups
> - [x] Routing
> - [x] Templates & Forms
> - [x] CRUD Functionality
> - [x] API Endpoints
> - [x] Styling & Message Flashing

## Mockups
In the first pass at this project, we'll create mockups for every page in the restaurant menu app, and design URLs for each page as well.

## Routing
In the second iteration, you'll set up all of the routings for your application in Flask, making sure you can navigate to all of the URLs you want to create for your application.

At the end of this iteration you should be able to navigate to all of your URLs, even if the pages are not yet created.

## Templates & Forms
After that, you'll build on top of what you made in the previous iteration by creating all of your templates and forms, and making sure that they are properly functioning within your application.

Once you have created and filled out all of your HTML templates and see them rendering in your application, we can move on to the next iteration.

## CRUD Functionality
Now that you have a good grasp of how your front-end code should look, you'll add the back-end functionality, making sure all of the actions on the web page are retrieving data from your database.

When all of the CRUD operations work on all of your web pages, you'll be finished with this iteration.

## API Endpoints
You will then add some endpoints that allow data to be sent if the client requests a menu or a specific menu item in JSON form.

You will test these API calls from within your browser to know you have successfully finished this step.

## Styling & Message Flashing
Finally, you will add some styling with CSS, JavaScript, and a few static images to give your application an appealing layout.

In this step you will also incorporate message flashing into your application.

----

# Step 1: Mockups

So before we start getting coded, let's take a second to draft up our page designs. There are a ton of good mockup and wireframing applications that you can download and use to design webpages, but for me, pencil and paper is perfect for the first draft.

So the first question that comes to mind is, how many types of pages this app will have?

So when the user lands on the root of my site, they should see a list of all the restaurants stored in my database. From here, they can click on a specific restaurant that will show the menu for that restaurant.

I also want them to be able to add new restaurants, and edit or delete existing restaurants from the list.

On a specific menu page, the user can view the menu for each restaurant. Similarly, they will have the option to add, edit, and delete menu items from a specific menu.

So it looks like we need to create **8** different webpages for our web app. I will go ahead and specify what I want the URL for each webpage to look like as well:

> 1. **Show all restaurants:** `'/restaurants'` (and `'/'`)
>
>
> 2. **Create new restaurant:** `'/restaurant/new'`
>
>
> 3. **Edit a restaurant:** `'/restaurant/<int:restaurant_id>/edit'`
>
>
> 4. **Delete a restaurant:** `/restaurant/<int:restaurant_id>/delete`
>
>
> 5. **Show a restaurant menu:** `/restaurant/<int:restaurant_id>/menu` and `/restaurant/<int:restaurant_id>`
>
>
> 6. **Create a new menu item:** `/restaurant/<int:restaurant_id>/menu/new`
>
>
> 7. **Edit a menu item:** `/restaurant/<int:restaurant_id>/menu/<int:menu_id>/edit`
>
>
> 8. **Delete a menu item:** `/restaurant/<int:restaurant_id>/menu/<int:menu_id>/delete`

Draw mockup pages for these eight URLs using pencil and paper or your favorite mockup application. It doesn't have to be anything fancy, just a sketch to communicate how you want your webpages to look.

----

# Step 2: Adding Routes

Now it's time to set up the routing for the application. In the mockups we specify routes for the following pages:
> 1. **Show all restaurants:** `'/restaurants'` (and `'/'`)
>
>
> 2. **Create new restaurant:** `'/restaurant/new'`
>
>
> 3. **Edit a restaurant:** `'/restaurant/<int:restaurant_id>/edit'`
>
>
> 4. **Delete a restaurant:** `/restaurant/<int:restaurant_id>/delete`
>
>
> 5. **Show a restaurant menu:** `/restaurant/<int:restaurant_id>/menu` and `/restaurant/<int:restaurant_id>`
>
>
> 6. **Create a new menu item:** `/restaurant/<int:restaurant_id>/menu/new`
>
>
> 7. **Edit a menu item:** `/restaurant/<int:restaurant_id>/menu/<int:menu_id>/edit`
>
>
> 8. **Delete a menu item:** `/restaurant/<int:restaurant_id>/menu/<int:menu_id>/delete`

Create a new Python file called *finalProject.py* in the same directory as all of our other files. Import the flask module and the app.run code, like in the previous lesson. Add the routing to all pages into *finalProject.py* and create the following methods that return the appropriate messages in the browser:

| URL 	| Method 	| Message 	|
|-----------------------------------------------------------	|--------------------	|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------	|
| /  /restaurants 	| showRestaurants() 	| "This page will show all my restaurants" 	|
| /restaurant/new 	| newRestaurant() 	| "This page will be for making a new restaurant" 	|
| /restaurant/restaurant_id/edit 	| editRestaurant() 	| "This page will be for editing restaurant %s" % restaurant_id 	|
| /restaurant/restaurant_id/delete 	| deleteRestaurant() 	| "This page will be for deleting restaurant %s" % restaurant_id 	|
| /restaurant/restaurant_id  /restaurant/restaurant_id/menu 	| showMenu() 	| "This page is the menu for restaurant %s" % restaurant_id 	|
| /restaurant/restaurant_id/menu/new 	| newMenuItem() 	| "This page is for making a new menu item for restaurant %s" % restaurant_id 	|
| /restaurant/restaurant_id/menu/menu_id/edit 	| editMenuItem() 	| "This page is for editing menu item %s" % menu_id 	|
| /restaurant/restaurant_id/menu/menu_id/delete 	| deleteMenuItem() 	| "This page is for deleting menu item %s" % menu_id 	|

When you save and fire up your browser, you should be able to visit all of the URLs.

----

# Step 3: Adding Templates

In this section, you're going to go ahead and replace those strings in your return statements with templates.

In your templates directory, make **8** new files with the following names:

- [x] restaurants.HTML
- [x] newRestaurant.HTML
- [x] editRestaurant.HTML
- [x] deleteRestaurant.HTML
- [x] menu.HTML
- [x] newMenuItem.HTML
- [x] editMenuItem.HTML
- [x] deleteMenuItem.HTML

Replace the previous return statements such that they now return `render_template`s for each of your methods in *finalProject.py*.

But wait a second, it we design our templates before connecting to a database, Python will throw an error message when we try to refer to Restaurants and MenuItems that don't yet exist in our application.

To get around this problem, we can temporarily make a fake database out of dictionaries inside of our *finalProject.py* file.

I have made some dictionaries which will serve as dummy variables for one restaurant, a collection of restaurants, one menu item, and a collection of menu items. The source code for these dictionaries is available **[here](https://www.udacity.com/api/nodes/3607568911/supplemental_media/fakemenuitemstxt/download)**.

Go ahead and leave hashtags in the form action and href paths since we're focusing more on the structure of our pages in this step, and not so much their functionality. Now, when a user revisits these links in a browser, they should see a form show up. The functionality isn't going to be in place just yet, but we've just created another prototype that we can use to present our progress thus far.

Your templates should also return a different message to the user if there's an empty menu, or empty list of restaurants, maybe something like *"You currently have no menu items. [Create new menu item]()"*

----

# Step 4: CRUD Functionality

With our routes and database in place, we can now add the actual CRUD Functionality to our page. Write in the appropriate SQLAlchemy statements for the following methods:

`showRestaurant()`          `showMenu()`
`newRestaurant()`           `newMenuItem()`
`editRestaurant()`          `editMenuItem()`
`deleteRestaurant()`        `deleteMenuItem()`

We also need to add url_for and redirects to our application when necessary.

Some of our routes need to be able to respond to `GET` and `POST` requests. Be sure to add this functionality as well.

When you're done with this step, you should have a prototype where all the CRUD operations are fully functional.

This might be a time consuming iteration to get everything working, but I encourage you to stick with it and not give up. Use the documentation on the Python, Flask and SQLAlchemy websites if needed as well.

----

# Step 5: API Endpoints

Now that we have a functioning application, let's add some API endpoints to it. The API request should return a JSON object for a list of all restaurants, the menu of a specific restaurant, and a specific menu item, when a client sends a GET request to one of these three URLs:
```
/restaurants/JSON
```
```
/restaurants/restaurant_id/menu/JSON
```
```
/restaurants/restaurant_id/menu/menu_id/JSON
```
Remember to import `jsonify` into your project, and add a serializable property to your database setup file where needed.

----

# Step 6: Styling

In this last section, let's put our focus on styling and improving the user experience.

Make a `/static` folder, and add some CSS files, JavaScript, or images to your application to make it more aesthetically pleasing.

Also, add **Message Flashing** to your app with the following six messages:

> New Restaurant Created

> Restaurant Successfully Edited

> Restaurant Successfully Deleted

> New Menu Item Created

> Menu Item Successfully Edited

> Menu Item Successfully Deleted

A very basic CSS file can be found **[here](https://github.com/udacity/Full-Stack-Foundations/blob/master/Lesson-4/Final-Project/static/styles.css)** for reference.

----

You can view **[this article](http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/1.0/deploying/)** on deploying Flask applications, but I **highly recommend** adding some **[security](https://pythonhosted.org/Flask-Security/)** to your application before publishing it on the internet.

A basic version of the final project can be found **[here](https://github.com/lobrown/Full-Stack-Foundations/tree/master/Lesson-4/Final-Project)**.
