# Adding CRUD to our Website

Now that we have a working web server, let's see if we can add some CRUD operations to our site. This will be a fun activity, where you'll finally bring together all of the major aspects you've learned about creating data-driven websites.

In this next section, we are going to modify our web server code, such that we can create, read, update, and delete restaurants from our menu database.

## Objectives

- [ ] **list out all restaurants:** `localhost:8080/restaurants` show a list of all the restaurant names in the database.
- [ ] **add edit & delete links:** after the name of each restaurant, there should be a link to edit and delete each restaurant - these links don't have to work for now, they should just be visible.
- [ ] **create new restaurants:** add code such that there is a page to create new restaurants with a form for writing the new restaurant name. The form should create a post request that creates a new restaurant menu item in the database.
- [ ] **rename a restaurant:** enhance the web server such that users can rename a restaurant and persist this edit to the database via post.
- [ ] **delete a restaurant:** create a feature such that by clicking `Delete`, takes the user to a confirmation page that then sends a post command to the database to delete the selected restaurant.

## Instructor notes
Follow the links below to view the necessary resources to complete these tasks:
* **[Python 2.7.9 Documentation](https://docs.python.org/2/)**
* **[Chrome Developer Tools](https://developer.chrome.com/devtools)**
